SplitVideo
==========

Python to generate and execute appleScript to split long video into named clips under csv file control. Fair warning - I am a python novice and know next to nothing about appleScript so this may not be a good way to do things but it works for me.

I have a bunch of Hi-8 tapes of my kids that I wanted to digitize and organize. My old PC had a hardware mpeg-2 encoder but the video editing software I have does conversions on import and export - a huge waste of time. QuickTime trims but it's tedious and you don't have sub-second control of the video split points. I found some appleScript to invoke QuickTime's precise trim at http://hints.macworld.com/article.php?story=20100305070247890 and decided to learn some more Python rather than learn date conversions in appleScript.

EDIT: added a simpler shell script that invokes ffmpeg and uses a ruby helper for calculating timestamp differences. The original stopped working on Yosemite for some reason and I hacked this quick alternative together.

Usage:
------
Use QuickTime's split command to get a cursor that shows you subsecond positioning. I found that QuickTime hangs on large .mpg files so I use ffmpeg -i &lt;infile>.mpg -codec copy &lt;outfile>.mov to change the container without changing the encoding. This prevents QuickTime from hanging if you scrub in split view. Use the mouse to drag the cursor to the approximate split point and then use the arrow keys on the keyboard to move back and forth by about .03 seconds. I suggest setting the split point about 3 keystrokes before the first new clip's frame.

Make notes in a .csv file about each clip you want to generate, where each row is &lt;clip_name>, &lt;start_time>,&lt;end_time>
The outfiles generated are &lt;clip_name>.mov. The times can be of the format M:S, M:S.ss (ss = decimal subseconds), H:M:S, H:M:S.ss.

Run the command by typing: "SplitVideo.py &lt;file>.mpg" or "SplitVideo.py &lt;file>.mov"

It will automatically create a subdirectory called &lt;file>_split, split the original video according to the instructions in your csv file and place the results in the subdirectory.

The appleScript that is generated by the python code is created and deleted during script execution time. Edit the python to prevent delete if you want to see how it works.

New implementation: "./splitVideo.sh <file>.mpg"
